there is a formula that works for seo in
almost every business hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm going to break
down seven seo secrets every successful
online business employs
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
the first strategy is topic clusters i
want you to stop thinking about keywords
as standalone and start thinking of
topics that you want to own
a great example of this is the
beginner's guide to seo by moss yes they
rank for the keyword seo on page one but
they don't just talk about seo in their
article they talk about all things seo
related for example they talk about link
building on-page seo content site speed
site maps google search console they go
really in-depth the more in-depth you go
the more thorough you go around a topic
even if some of those keywords don't get
much traffic it's okay
you're all about covering that topic in
every single way try to poke holes in
your articles try to poke holes in your
content make sure that you're covering
it from every way from sunday so then
that way you're more likely to rank
higher number two
internal linking it's silly but most
people don't focus on it
every time that you publish new content
you should figure out all right is this
new content related to any of my older
pieces of content and can i go back into
at least three old articles and link to
this new one that i just published by
doing that what you'll find is your new
article will instantly get more juice
and i'll have a better shot of ranking
on google because your internal linking
to it versus keeping this article as
this you know separate island that no
one can easily visit so you want to end
up creating paths right so that way
people can get to it because search
engines crawl your website and as they
crawl you want them to be able to pick
up that article quicker better from
multiple directions so that way they're
like hey this article must be a part of
multiple pages or linking to it third
outsmart your competition i want you to
identify pages that rank really well for
your competition but they have very few
backlinks and then you're going to be
creating better content around those
pages and topics the way you do this is
you go to ubersuggest and you type in a
competitor url in the left-hand
navigation go to top pages it'll show
you all their most popular pages look at
their backlinks see which pages get the
most traffic that's relevant to your
business have keyword rankings that are
relevant to your business because
ubersales will show you the keywords
that each page ranks for
and as long as they're relevant look for
the ones that also have very little
backlinks and then go create pages that
are better
and when you create better pages using
brightening skyscraper technique
in which if someone has an article on
seo you're going to create the ultimate
guide to seo and it's going to be more
in-depth cover it way more ways so that
way people like huh i don't need to go
read another page on seo and then hit up
all the people that link to your
competition get them to link to you by
reaching out and saying how your page is
better and then over time you'll watch
your rankings climb
and then take those pages that you just
published and also internal link to them
as well carefully because you don't want
to just internal link to them when it
doesn't make sense it needs to be
relevant to those other pages and by
doing that you'll be able to start
seeing your rankings climb another
approach that i do to find links to
these pages is i use a backlinks
opportunity report in uber says because
if my competitors have an article it's
probably other pages from other websites
that are similar i put in those urls
into the backlinks opportunity report
and then my url
and that report will show me all the
people that link to my competitors but
not me which then helps me rank higher
so a great example of this is if i have
an article on seo moz has an article on
seo search engine lan has an article on
seo
brian dean has an article on seo i would
put all their urls in the backlinks
opportunity report and then my url in
the backlinks opportunity report it'll
show me everyone who links to them but
doesn't link to me fourth
create advanced guides
be very thorough in your content just
think about wikipedia have you noticed
that they pretty much rank for
everything well the reason they rank for
pretty much everything is their
content's thorough and it's not just
thorough it continually is thorough what
i mean by this is people keep updating
it they don't just write thorough
content and let it sit they keep writing
content people keep updating it they
make it more and more thorough as things
change so that way it does better over
time and i want you to do the same
strategy fifth use google search console
to avoid content cannibalization if you
have the same articles ranking for
similar keywords and getting impressions
for it it's pretty much duplicate in
google's eyes so combine the articles
and the urls make sure you use the 301
redirect so that way you're transferring
equity and when you combine those posts
into the more popular version of the url
which google search console or google
analytics will tell you
it'll then tell you hey
you know here's one put all the juice to
this one rank this one higher
and make sure you also go adjust the
internal links so if there's any old
pages that link to either of the
articles make sure they're linking to
the live one because you don't want to
link to the old url that's being
redirected to the new url so you want to
clean that up and you can use tools like
screaming frog to figure this out
six boost brand queries
look in radio ads people tell you to
search for the brand they tell you to
find them on google they do the same in
podcast interviews and you can do that
for around the web anytime you're doing
interviews or speeches
or if you're doing ad campaigns or in
your instagram profile give instructions
for people to go google your brand the
more people googling for your brand
researching your company the more brand
queries you get the more brand queries
you get the more you're going to rank
higher in the long run you can also do
this for like creating compelling offers
or giveaways or
contests and telling people hey you know
just go search on google and do x y and
z and that can be part of it
you don't want to ideally manipulate
things you want to more so make it quote
unquote more natural what i mean by that
is not natural for google but more
natural for your business you want
people researching it not for some
giveaway but more so if they're really
relevant and you believe that they can
even become customers down the road as
well and last but not least number seven
i want you to rank for keywords that are
the easiest and the lowest hanging fruit
so how do you do this
and uber suggests type in any keyword
that's related to your industry
you'll then see a report that shows you
the overall traffic
then in the left-hand navigation i want
you to click on keyword ideas this will
show you a report of all the ideas
related to that keyword suggestions
related keywords questions and as long
as you're logged in you'll see this
button option that'll show you hey
show me the keywords that i can rank for
you click on it you put in your url and
then it'll show you all the keywords
based on your authority your backlink
profile all your seo factors that you
have opportunities to rank for right now
just make sure you go through that list
of keywords even though it's filtered
down by keywords that you have a shot of
ranking for it doesn't mean they'll all
be 100 fit as long as the tents there
and the products and services that you
offer match up with those keywords
you'll be fine if you need help with
your marketing check out my ad agency np
digital if you enjoyed this video like
it share it tell people about it thank
you for watching